always seems to be the rich people that
get all these schemes and we poor people
don't uh let's talk to inequality
economist gary stevenson good evening
gary
hi kevin uh yeah i mean tony and sherry
blair didn't break any laws but if you
read through it it's all very clever all
very securities and guess what three
hundred and twelve thousand pounds in
stamp duty that you or i would have had
to have paid they didn't totally legally
i stress uh but it's the kind of trick
that people like you and i don't get and
people like them do get
you know when i saw this story the first
thing i thought was yeah i don't know if
you've you've probably noticed this as
well right politicians always say we're
going to close the loopholes we're going
to close the loopholes and yeah the
loopholes never seem to get close right
it's sort of a mystery why do they say
it but they don't do it but um
you know when we see people like
tony blair and it's not just tony blair
also david cameron george osborne nick
clegg all of these guys when they
finished working
um in politics they went straight away
and got multi-million pound jobs working
for huge corporations so you know when
they're in office
if they're thinking after this i'm gonna
go and get paid 10 million pounds i
think david cameron made about 10
million dollars it might have been at
greensville if they think well i'm going
to make 10 million dollars straight away
when i leave here are they going to
close tax loopholes for millionaires and
billionaires i think this sort of tells
us why then when you look at who's in
power now boris johnson
which is so multi-millionaire
literally billionaire father-in-law
they're probably not going to close
these loopholes and you know it really
makes me worry about what's going to
happen well this is uh these pandora
papers they come after the panama papers
don't they uh these consist of 12
million documents from 14 financial
service companies uh in countries
including the british virgin islands
panama belize cyprus and the united arab
emirates singapore switzerland all over
the world
and these people's money swirls around
the world getting involved in various
schemes saving them they're here saving
them there uh this is a window into the
rich people's tax system isn't it
yeah you know i've been working in this
sort of tax justice area for a while now
and nobody works this area is surprised
you know it's you know you mentioned the
panama papers there was also the
paradise papers in between i mean if you
work in this area and you know i talk to
economists but also tax accountants and
tax lawyers the fact is the super rich
they
pay very low rates of tax because they
can
um they they pay for good tax advice
that lets them know how to do it but
also politicians are not closing the
loopholes so
you know we're getting again and again
revelation after revelation um
it's not a surprise to people who work
in this area the fact is super rich
people very rich people millionaires and
billionaires
pay much lower rates of taxes than you
or me or listeners because they can
afford extremely expensive accountants
who know how to use these financial
service companies around the world but
also i think that would you agree with
me gary that
you know for example amazon doesn't pay
very much tax here nor does facebook nor
do google they all don't pay all that
much i think that's because the
government doesn't want to make
conditions difficult for them they want
to encourage them to be here so that
they're a big company's uh prospering
here they employ a lot of people in
other words they turn a blind eye to the
fact they get away with murder when it
comes to their taxes right
well i think that there's two separate
things here right there's one low
corporation of taxation uh low taxation
of corporations sorry and also low
taxation of individuals right and we
have to ask ourselves why did the
government do it and um
they often do suggest you know we need
to attract these companies to be here to
do business here um
but often i wonder if these people are
not paying tax and they're generating
enormous amounts of income
you have to wonder what are they really
contributing to our society you know
companies like amazon they end up
producing extremely
low paid jobs and these very wealthy
individuals who make enormous incomes
and pay extremely low rates of tax often
the net effect of what they do is they
push our house prices up and they make
housing unaffordable to ordinary people
um so you know i'm strongly trying to
message the politicians that you need to
do something about this because if you
don't tax these people who are taking a
huge chunk of our national income you
end up doing things like raising
national insurance which is raising tax
on
ordinary people ordinary workers earning
20 25 30 grand a year who often don't
have much left over yeah i tell you uh
and of course putin
emerges from this as frankly uh a crook
to be honest with you and they say he
might be the richest person in the world
he's siphoned off so money
yeah well he can try and sue if he if he
wants but he won't um
so yeah i mean we have a massive problem
here and i just think somewhere or other
something needs to be done about it gary
wish we could have a lot longer to talk
about it but perhaps we can reconvene at
a different time and
discuss it at some length gary stevens
there inequality economist on the
pandora papers